1a. Explain in words what are the 3 control structures and how each of the 3 control structures
works in general.

1. Sequence - a line-by-line execution of statements. Without any modifiers, this is how code is executed.
2. Selection - Depending on whether a condition is true or false, this control structure may omit execution of a particular block of code. This is sometimes called branching.
3. Repetition - A block of code can be executed multiple times, either until a specific condition is met, or while a specific condition is met. This is sometimes called looping.

1b. Explain in words what are the 3 kinds of programming errors and give examples.

1. Syntax - Analogous to a spelling or grammar error, this error occurs when the rules of the language are not observed.
  Ex. forgetting case sensitive instructions, or forgetting a semicolon
2. Logic - Analogous to a translation error, this error occurs when the program is able to start, but produces unintended results or incorrect output. This can be a result of not fully understanding the problem, or not accounting for all expected inputs/outputs.
  Ex. When calculating the area of an object, failing to specify that inputs length and width cannot be <= 0, and then receiving a negative area.
3. Execution/Runtime - Analogous to trying to translate a phrase that has no meaning in another language, this error occurs when the program is asked to do something it cannot do.
  Ex. Trying to divide by 0, trying to perform an operation on an undeclared variable

1c. What are the 5 functions of all computers?
1. Input
2. Processing
3. Output
4. Data Storage
5. Communication/Controlling


1d. Explain in words what is a statement and what is an expression and what is the difference.

A statement is analogous to a sentence. it has a clear beginning and an end; it is one complete instruction, but it may be on multiple lines. A program is a series of statements that tell a computer how to generate computer-readable code. A statement is comprised of one or more expressions. Expressions are similar to phrases, they are part of a statement


1e. What are the 2 major categories of software and the 3 subcategories of each.

1. Applications
  1a. Productivity
  1b. Education
  1c. Entertainment
2. Systems
  2a. Operating Systems
  2b. Utilities
  2c. Language Translators



1f. What are the 3 language translators and how do they work? They translate what to what?

1. Compilers - They take the entire program (in a high-level programming language) at the same time as input, then translates it into machine-readable code (binary), and then finally executes the whole program at once
2. Interpreters - Like a compiler in that it translates high-level language, but it translates it into an intermediate language, to be executed line-by-line by another program.
3. Assemblers - Used to convert low-level language (assembly language) into machine-readable code

The three main language translators all translate TO binary, but they differ in the input language, and the method of translation.


